product-mini/platforms/linux-sgx/enclave-sample/App/wamr-bundle.md, before:

# Run WAMR bundle for Rune

## Create WAMR Application bundle

In order to use `rune` you must have your container image in the format of an OCI bundle. If you have Docker installed you can use its `export` method to acquire a root filesystem from an existing WAMR application container image.

```shell
# create the top most bundle directory
mkdir -p "$HOME/rune_workdir"
cd "$HOME/rune_workdir"
mkdir rune-container
cd rune-container

# create the rootfs directory
mkdir rootfs

# export wamr application image via Docker into the rootfs directory
docker export $(docker create ${wamr_application_image}) | sudo tar -C rootfs -xvf -
```

After a root filesystem is populated you just generate a spec in the format of a config.json file inside your bundle. `rune` provides a spec command which is similar to `runc` to generate a template file that you are then able to edit.

```shell
rune spec
```

To find features and documentation for fields in the spec please refer to the [specs](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec) repository.

In order to run the target applications in WAMR with `rune`, you need to change the entrypoint from `sh` to `/run/rune/${wasm_app1.wasm}`, and in order to run multi-applications in one runtime with enclave, change it to `/run/rune/${wasm_app1.aot}`, `/run/rune/${wasm_app2.aot}` ... 

```yaml
  "process": {
      "args": [
          "/run/rune/demo.aot"
      ],
  }
```

and then configure enclave runtime as following:

```yaml
  "annotations": {
      "enclave.type": "intelSgx",
      "enclave.runtime.path": "/usr/lib/libwamr-pal.so",
      "enclave.runtime.args": "./"
  }
```

where:

- @enclave.type: specify the type of enclave hardware to use, such as `intelSgx`.
- @enclave.runtime.path: specify the path to enclave runtime to launch. For an WAMR application, you need to specify the path to `libwamr-pal.so`.
- @enclave.runtime.args: specify the specific arguments to enclave runtime, separated by the comma.

---

## Run WAMR Application

Assuming you have an OCI bundle from the previous step you can execute the container in this way.

```shell
cd "$HOME/rune_workdir/rune-container"
sudo rune run ${wamr_application_container_name}
```

Commit message:

Enhance the readability of WAMR SGX docs (#442)
The global doc/linux_sgx.md needs to explicitly describe the methods to
build a debug enclave and hardware running mode. Because using debug key
to signing enclave image rather than production key is still not trivial
in reality.

For the adaption of Inclavare Containers part, add a prolog and give
more details in order to enhance the readability.

Signed-off-by: Jia Zhang <zhang.jia@linux.alibaba.com>

product-mini/platforms/linux-sgx/enclave-sample/App/wamr-bundle.md, after:

# Run WAMR enclave runtime with bundle

## Create WAMR Application bundle

`rune` can directly launch an OCI bundle converted from docker image. If you have Docker installed you can use its `export` sub-command to acquire a root filesystem from an existing WAMR application docker image.

```shell
# create the top most bundle directory
mkdir -p "$HOME/rune_workdir"
cd "$HOME/rune_workdir"
mkdir wamr-sgx-bundle
cd warmr-sgx-bundle

# create the rootfs directory
mkdir rootfs

# export wamr application image via Docker into the rootfs directory
docker export $(docker create ${wamr_application_image}) | sudo tar -C rootfs -xvf -
```

After a root filesystem is populated you just generate a spec in the format of a config.json file inside your bundle. `rune` provides a spec command which is similar to `runc` to generate a template file that you are then able to edit.

```shell
rune spec
```

To find features and documentation for fields in the spec please refer to the [specs](https://github.com/opencontainers/runtime-spec) repository.

In order to run the target application in WAMR with `rune`, you need to change the entrypoint from `sh` to the target application, and in order to run multi-applications in one runtime with enclave, change it to `/run/rune/${wasm_app1.aot}`, `/run/rune/${wasm_app2.aot}` ... 

```json
  "process": {
      "args": [
          "/run/rune/${wasm_app}"
      ],
  }
```

and then configure enclave runtime as following:

```json
  "annotations": {
      "enclave.type": "intelSgx",
      "enclave.runtime.path": "/usr/lib/libwamr-pal.so",
      "enclave.runtime.args": "debug"
  }
```

where:

- @enclave.type: specify the type of enclave hardware to use, such as `intelSgx`.
- @enclave.runtime.path: specify the path to enclave runtime to launch. For an WAMR application, you need to specify the path to `libwamr-pal.so`.
- @enclave.runtime.args: specify the specific arguments to enclave runtime, separated by the comma.

---

## Run WAMR Application

Assuming you have an OCI bundle from the previous step you can execute the container in this way.

```shell
cd "$HOME/rune_workdir/wamr-sgx-bundle"
sudo rune run wamr-sgx-app
```
