doc/source_debugging.md, before:

# WAMR source debugging

WAMR supports source level debugging based on DWARF (normally used in C/C++/Rust), source map (normally used in AssemblyScript) is not supported.

## Build wasm application with debug information
To debug your application, you need to compile them with debug information. You can use `-g` option when compiling the source code if you are using wasi-sdk (also work for emcc and rustc):
``` bash
/opt/wasi-sdk/bin/clang -g test.c -o test.wasm
```

Then you will get `test.wasm` which is a WebAssembly module with embedded DWARF sections. Further, you can use `llvm-dwarfdump` to check if the generated wasm file contains DWARF information:
``` bash
llvm-dwarfdump-12 test.wasm
```

## Debugging with interpreter
1. Install dependent libraries
``` bash
apt update && apt install cmake make g++ libxml2-dev -y
```

2. Build iwasm with source debugging feature
``` bash
cd ${WAMR_ROOT}/product-mini/platforms/linux
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. -DWAMR_BUILD_DEBUG_INTERP=1
make
```

3. Execute iwasm with debug engine enabled
``` bash
iwasm -g=127.0.0.1:1234 test.wasm
# Use port = 0 to allow a random assigned debug port
```

4. Build customized lldb (assume you have already cloned llvm)
``` bash
cd ${WAMR_ROOT}/core/deps/llvm
git apply ../../../build-scripts/lldb-wasm.patch
mkdir build-lldb && cd build-lldb
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE:STRING="Release" -DLLVM_ENABLE_PROJECTS="clang;lldb" -DLLVM_TARGETS_TO_BUILD:STRING="X86;WebAssembly" -DLLVM_ENABLE_LIBXML2:BOOL=ON ../llvm
make -j $(nproc)
```

5. Launch customized lldb and connect to iwasm
``` bash
lldb
(lldb) process connect -p wasm connect://127.0.0.1:1234
```
Then you can use lldb commands to debug your applications. Please refer to [lldb document](https://lldb.llvm.org/use/tutorial.html) for command usage.

> Known issue: `step over` on some function may be treated as `step in`, it will be fixed later.

## Debugging with AoT

> Note: AoT debugging is experimental and only a few debugging capabilities are supported.

1. Build lldb (assume you have already built llvm)
``` bash
cd ${WAMR_ROOT}/core/deps/llvm/build
cmake . -DLLVM_ENABLE_PROJECTS="clang;lldb"
make -j $(nproc)
```

2. Build wamrc with debugging feature
``` bash
cd ${WAMR_ROOT}/wamr-compiler
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. -DWAMR_BUILD_DEBUG_AOT=1
make -j $(nproc)
```

3. Build iwasm with debugging feature
``` bash
cd ${WAMR_ROOT}/product-mini/platforms/linux
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. -DWAMR_BUILD_DEBUG_AOT=1
make
```

4. Compile wasm module to AoT module
``` bash
wamrc -o test.aot test.wasm
```

5. Execute iwasm using lldb
``` bash
lldb-12 iwasm -- test.aot
```

Then you can use lldb commands to debug both wamr runtime and your wasm application in ***current terminal***

## Enable debugging in embedders (for interpreter)

There are three steps to enable debugging in embedders

1. Set the debug parameters when initializing the runtime environment:
    ``` c
    RuntimeInitArgs init_args;
    memset(&init_args, 0, sizeof(RuntimeInitArgs));

    /* ... */
    strcpy(init_args.ip_addr, "127.0.0.1");
    init_args.instance_port = 1234;
    /*
    * Or set port to 0 to use a port assigned by os
    * init_args.instance_port = 0;
    */

    if (!wasm_runtime_full_init(&init_args)) {
        return false;
    }
    ```

2. Use `wasm_runtime_start_debug_instance` to create the debug instance:
    ``` c
    /*
        initialization, loading and instantiating
        ...
    */
    exec_env = wasm_runtime_create_exec_env(module_inst, stack_size);
    uint32_t debug_port = wasm_runtime_start_debug_instance(exec_env);
    ```

3. Enable source debugging features during building

    You can use `-DWAMR_BUILD_DEBUG_INTERP=1` during cmake configuration

    Or you can set it directly in `cmake` files:
    ``` cmake
    set (WAMR_BUILD_DEBUG_INTERP 1)
    ```

### Attentions
- Debugging `multi-thread wasm module` is not supported, if your wasm module use pthread APIs (see [pthread_library.md](./pthread_library.md)), or the embedder use `wasm_runtime_spawn_thread` to create new wasm threads, then there may be **unexpected behaviour** during debugging.

    > Note: This attention is about "wasm thread" rather than native threads. Executing wasm functions in several different native threads will **not** affect the normal behaviour of debugging feature.

- When using source debugging features, **don't** create multiple `wasm_instance` from the same `wasm_module`, because the debugger may change the bytecode (set/unset breakpoints) of the `wasm_module`. If you do need several instance from the same bytecode, you need to copy the bytecode to a new butter, then load a new `wasm_module`, and then instantiate the new wasm module to get the new instance.

- If you are running `lldb` on non-linux platforms, please use `platform select remote-linux` command in lldb before connecting to the runtime:
    ```
    (lldb) platform select remote-linux
    (lldb) process connect -p wasm connect://127.0.0.1:1234
    ```

Commit message:

add lldb patch to attribution (#900)

doc/source_debugging.md, after:

# WAMR source debugging

WAMR supports source level debugging based on DWARF (normally used in C/C++/Rust), source map (normally used in AssemblyScript) is not supported.

**The lldb's ability to debug wasm application is based on the patch [Add class WasmProcess for WebAssembly debugging](https://reviews.llvm.org/D78801). Thanks very much to the author @paolosev for such a great work!**

## Build wasm application with debug information
To debug your application, you need to compile them with debug information. You can use `-g` option when compiling the source code if you are using wasi-sdk (also work for emcc and rustc):
``` bash
/opt/wasi-sdk/bin/clang -g test.c -o test.wasm
```

Then you will get `test.wasm` which is a WebAssembly module with embedded DWARF sections. Further, you can use `llvm-dwarfdump` to check if the generated wasm file contains DWARF information:
``` bash
llvm-dwarfdump-12 test.wasm
```

## Debugging with interpreter
1. Install dependent libraries
``` bash
apt update && apt install cmake make g++ libxml2-dev -y
```

2. Build iwasm with source debugging feature
``` bash
cd ${WAMR_ROOT}/product-mini/platforms/linux
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. -DWAMR_BUILD_DEBUG_INTERP=1
make
```

3. Execute iwasm with debug engine enabled
``` bash
iwasm -g=127.0.0.1:1234 test.wasm
# Use port = 0 to allow a random assigned debug port
```

4. Build customized lldb (assume you have already cloned llvm)
``` bash
cd ${WAMR_ROOT}/core/deps/llvm
git apply ../../../build-scripts/lldb-wasm.patch
mkdir build-lldb && cd build-lldb
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE:STRING="Release" -DLLVM_ENABLE_PROJECTS="clang;lldb" -DLLVM_TARGETS_TO_BUILD:STRING="X86;WebAssembly" -DLLVM_ENABLE_LIBXML2:BOOL=ON ../llvm
make -j $(nproc)
```

5. Launch customized lldb and connect to iwasm
``` bash
lldb
(lldb) process connect -p wasm connect://127.0.0.1:1234
```
Then you can use lldb commands to debug your applications. Please refer to [lldb document](https://lldb.llvm.org/use/tutorial.html) for command usage.

> Known issue: `step over` on some function may be treated as `step in`, it will be fixed later.

## Debugging with AoT

> Note: AoT debugging is experimental and only a few debugging capabilities are supported.

1. Build lldb (assume you have already built llvm)
``` bash
cd ${WAMR_ROOT}/core/deps/llvm/build
cmake . -DLLVM_ENABLE_PROJECTS="clang;lldb"
make -j $(nproc)
```

2. Build wamrc with debugging feature
``` bash
cd ${WAMR_ROOT}/wamr-compiler
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. -DWAMR_BUILD_DEBUG_AOT=1
make -j $(nproc)
```

3. Build iwasm with debugging feature
``` bash
cd ${WAMR_ROOT}/product-mini/platforms/linux
mkdir build && cd build
cmake .. -DWAMR_BUILD_DEBUG_AOT=1
make
```

4. Compile wasm module to AoT module
``` bash
wamrc -o test.aot test.wasm
```

5. Execute iwasm using lldb
``` bash
lldb-12 iwasm -- test.aot
```

Then you can use lldb commands to debug both wamr runtime and your wasm application in ***current terminal***

## Enable debugging in embedders (for interpreter)

There are three steps to enable debugging in embedders

1. Set the debug parameters when initializing the runtime environment:
    ``` c
    RuntimeInitArgs init_args;
    memset(&init_args, 0, sizeof(RuntimeInitArgs));

    /* ... */
    strcpy(init_args.ip_addr, "127.0.0.1");
    init_args.instance_port = 1234;
    /*
    * Or set port to 0 to use a port assigned by os
    * init_args.instance_port = 0;
    */

    if (!wasm_runtime_full_init(&init_args)) {
        return false;
    }
    ```

2. Use `wasm_runtime_start_debug_instance` to create the debug instance:
    ``` c
    /*
        initialization, loading and instantiating
        ...
    */
    exec_env = wasm_runtime_create_exec_env(module_inst, stack_size);
    uint32_t debug_port = wasm_runtime_start_debug_instance(exec_env);
    ```

3. Enable source debugging features during building

    You can use `-DWAMR_BUILD_DEBUG_INTERP=1` during cmake configuration

    Or you can set it directly in `cmake` files:
    ``` cmake
    set (WAMR_BUILD_DEBUG_INTERP 1)
    ```

### Attentions
- Debugging `multi-thread wasm module` is not supported, if your wasm module use pthread APIs (see [pthread_library.md](./pthread_library.md)), or the embedder use `wasm_runtime_spawn_thread` to create new wasm threads, then there may be **unexpected behaviour** during debugging.

    > Note: This attention is about "wasm thread" rather than native threads. Executing wasm functions in several different native threads will **not** affect the normal behaviour of debugging feature.

- When using source debugging features, **don't** create multiple `wasm_instance` from the same `wasm_module`, because the debugger may change the bytecode (set/unset breakpoints) of the `wasm_module`. If you do need several instance from the same bytecode, you need to copy the bytecode to a new butter, then load a new `wasm_module`, and then instantiate the new wasm module to get the new instance.

- If you are running `lldb` on non-linux platforms, please use `platform select remote-linux` command in lldb before connecting to the runtime:
    ```
    (lldb) platform select remote-linux
    (lldb) process connect -p wasm connect://127.0.0.1:1234
    ```
